CVCs, CDs, and CCs (#108)
makerdao/endgame-docs: maker-core/cvc.md

# Constitutional Voter Committees (CVCs)

## Overview

> Constitutional Voter Committees (CVCs) are organized groups of MKR holders who have a shared vision . They form opinions on the direction of Maker Governance by producing and updating Position Documents.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constitutional Voter Committees (CVCs) are organized groups of MKR holders who have a shared vision for the protocol. They produce and publish documentation that Maker Governance can use to have informed opinions on the CVC's vision.  
```

Author: Maybe : "They produce and publish documentation that Maker Governance can use to have informed opinions about the CVC's governance strategy." ?

Each CVC produces Governance Strategy Position documents and Scope Framework Position Documents to update the [Scope Frameworks](https://endgame.makerdao.com/maker-core/list-of-scopes). This set of documents provide general guidelines for how CDs that follow their governance strategy should vote.

> CVCs are one type of Voter Committee. CVCs must have at least one member who is a [Constitutional Conserver (CC)](https://endgame.makerdao.com/maker-core/tbc-governance/constitutional-conservers) and a verified MKR holder. They are subject to eligibility requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for a Voter Committee to be considered a CVC, it must have at least one member who is a [Constitutional Conserver (CC)](https://endgame.makerdao.com/maker-core/tbc-governance/constitutional-conservers) and a verified MKR holder. The members are subject to eligibility requirements.
```

## Purpose

> CVCs exist to represent the interest of MKR holders. They are responsible to creating documentation to inform Maker holders and align governance with the focus areas of the Maker Protocol. Delegates must follow these strategies.

Reviewer: Not sure we need this paragraph to explain the purpose of CVCs

Author: I was not convinced about this paragraph neither. I "forced" myself to find a "why?" after LFW's feedback but it might be unnecessary.

Position Documents abstract away the minutiae of day-to-day governance. They allow MKR Holders to be reasonably informed and secure with regards to the general direction of their chosen delegation.

## Eligibility Requirements

Voter Committees must meet certain requirements for at least a quarterly governance cycle to become CVCs:
- At least one registered member must be a CC and a verified MKR holder
- On each quarterly governance cycle, CVCs must:

>  - Create a Governance Strategy Position and 12 Scope Framework Position documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Governance Strategy Position and 12 Scope Framework Position documents
```

 - Hold one CVC Subcommittee meeting for each scope

The [Arbitration Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP113) gives this recognition. It can revoke it anytime the CVC fails to meet all eligibility requirements.

## Member Participation Rewards

> The Member Participation Rewards is a compensation available to CVC members. It considers their participation in each scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Member Participation Rewards is a compensation scheme available to CVC members. It considers their participation in each scope.
```

To be eligible, CVC members must:
 - Attend the CVC Subcommittee Meetings
 - Co-author the CVC Governance Strategy Position Document

> CVC Members who fulfill these eligibility requirements and have the highest verified MKR ownership get the slots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CVC Members who fulfill these eligibility requirements and have the highest verified MKR ownership are eligible for compensation.
```

## Visibility

> The [EGF](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP110#sentence-summary) displays CVCs on a list that ranks them by their voter weight. The CVC with the highest voter weight being on top of it. The voter weight is calculated by adding the verified MKR holdings of Members plus the MKR delegated to delegates that follow the CVC's Governance Strategy.

Reviewer: Not sure if we want to link to the MIP or to the EGF doc

> ### Constitutional Delegate (CD) interaction CVC Governance Strategies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Interaction between Constitutional Delegates and CVCs
```

> CDs can display themselves in the EGF as followers of a CVC's Strategy. When they receive votes delegated through a Governance Strategy, they must execute it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDs can display themselves in the EGF as followers of a CVC's Strategy. When they receive votes delegated through a Governance Strategy, they must execute the CVC Strategy.
```
